Rework Let's Encrypt doc; add pre-hook and post-hook info (#623)
opensciencegrid/docs: docs/security/host-certs/lets-encrypt.md

Let's Encrypt can be used to obtain host certificates as an alternative to InCommon if your institution does not have
an InCommon subscription.

Let's Encrypt uses an automated script named [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org) for requesting and renewing host certs.
`certbot` binds to port 80 when running, so services running on port 80
(such as [HTCondor-CE View service](https://opensciencegrid.github.io/docs/compute-element/install-htcondor-ce/#install-and-run-the-htcondor-ce-view))
must be temporarily stopped before running `certbot`.
In addition, port 80 must be open to the world while `certbot` is running.
Let's Encrypt host certs expire every three months so it is important to set up automated renewal.

> EL7 and Newer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enterprise Linux 7+
```

-------------

> This section contains instructions for EL7 and newer systems, using systemd timers and `certbot` from an RPM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section contains instructions for Enterprise Linux 7 and newer operatingsystems, using systemd timers and `certbot` from an RPM.
```

Let's Encrypt can be used to obtain host certificates as an alternative to InCommon if your institution does not have
an InCommon subscription.

Let's Encrypt uses an automated script named [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org) for requesting and renewing host certs.
`certbot` binds to port 80 when running, so services running on port 80
(such as [HTCondor-CE View service](https://opensciencegrid.github.io/docs/compute-element/install-htcondor-ce/#install-and-run-the-htcondor-ce-view))
must be temporarily stopped before running `certbot`.
In addition, port 80 must be open to the world while `certbot` is running.

> If this is a problem, see the [alternate renewal methods](#alternate-renewal-methods) section below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this does not work for your host, see the [alternate renewal methods](#alternate-renewal-methods) section below.
```

1. Set up hostcert/hostkey links:

        :::console
        root@host # ln -sf /etc/letsencrypt/live/*/cert.pem /etc/grid-security/hostcert.pem
        root@host # ln -sf /etc/letsencrypt/live/*/privkey.pem /etc/grid-security/hostkey.pem
        root@host # chmod 0600 /etc/letsencrypt/archive/*/privkey*.pem

1. Restart services running on port 80 if there were any.

### Renewing Let's Encrypt host certificates

> You can manually renew with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can manually renew your certificate with the following command:
```

``` console
root@host # certbot renew
```

The certificate will be renewed if it is close to expiring.
 

> !!!note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!!note "Disable services listening on port 80"
```

    without warnings if the service does not run correctly.

### Pre- and post-renewal hooks

> Sometimes you want to run commands before and after cert renewal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`certbot` provides the ability to run scripts before and/or after certificate renewal via command hooks.
```

> Some uses of this are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common uses for these hooks include:
```

> - copy the renewed certificate so it can be used for a separate service (such as xrootd)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copying the renewed certificate so that it can be used for a separate service (such as XRootD)
```

> - shut down and restart a service running on port 80

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Shutting down and restarting a service running on port 80
```

> - temporarily open up a firewall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Temporarily opening up the firewall
```

    without warnings if the service does not run correctly.

### Pre- and post-renewal hooks

Sometimes you want to run commands before and after cert renewal.
Some uses of this are:

- copy the renewed certificate so it can be used for a separate service (such as xrootd)
- shut down and restart a service running on port 80
- temporarily open up a firewall

To do this, call `certbot` with `--pre-hook <COMMAND>` for a command or script to run before renewal,
and `--post-hook <COMMAND>` for a command or script to run after renewal.
The command(s) will only be run if the certificate is actually renewed.

#### Example

This example is for a host running CEView and XRootD standalone;

> CEView needs to be stopped so it doesn't block port 80, and XRootD needs the cert in a separate location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CEView needs to be stopped so it doesn't block port 80, and XRootD needs its certificate in a separate location.
```

Create the following scripts:

**/root/bin/certbot-pre.sh**
```bash
#!/bin/bash
condor_ce_off -daemon CEVIEW
```

**/root/bin/certbot-post.sh**
```bash
#!/bin/bash
cd /etc/grid-security
cp -f hostcert.pem xrd/xrdcert.pem
cp -f hostkey.pem xrd/xrdkey.pem
chown -R xrootd:xrootd xrd
condor_ce_on -daemon CEVIEW
systemctl restart xrootd@standalone
```

Then call `certbot` as follows:

```console
root@host # certbot renew --pre-hook /root/bin/certbot-pre.sh \
                          --post-hook /root/bin/certbot-post.sh
```

> For automated renewal, edit the `certbot.service` file and add the `--pre-hook <COMMAND>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For automated renewal, edit the `certbot.service` file that you created [above](#automating-renewals-using-systemd-timers) and add the `--pre-hook <COMMAND>`
```

and `--post-hook <COMMAND>` arguments to the `ExecStart` line:

```ini
ExecStart=/usr/bin/certbot renew --quiet --agree-tos \
             --pre-hook /root/bin/certbot-pre.sh \
             --post-hook /root/bin/certbot-post.sh
```

### Alternate renewal methods

There are some cases in which you might need an alternative to running `certbot` as above.
For example:

> - you have a web server running on port 80 that you do not want to shut down during renewal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have a web server running on port 80 that you do not want to shut down during renewal
```

> - you cannot open up port 80 during renewal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You cannot open port 80 during renewal
```

> - you want a wildcard certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You want a wildcard certificate
```

> - you want to run the renewal on a different machine than where the cert will be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You want to run the renewal on a different machine than where the certificate will be used
```
